2010.md

#1
In high-level languages like Python, vectorization plays an important role in some cases.
Explain when and why this is important, and give an example.

#2

#4
Consider the following class:  

    class Foo(object):
        def __init__(self, i, j):
            self.i, self.j = i, j
            
        def __str__(self):
           return “(%d, %d)” % (self.i, self.j)
           
         def __setitem__(self, idx, v):
            if idx == 0:
                self.i = v
            elif idx == 1:
                self.j = v
            else:
                raise RuntimeError(“Index out of bounds [0,1]”)
    
Make a subclass of __Foo__, named __Bar__, that implements the special methods ____eq____ and
____repr____, such that the following code works:  

    >>> f = Bar(1,2)
    >>> g = Bar(2,2)
    >>> f == g
    False
    >>> g == eval(repr(g))
    True
    >>> g[0] = 1
    >>> f == g
    True

#5
You're an assistant at Foomatic Inc., where you've been assigned to send emails to every
previous customer of the business by the end of the week. Your problem is that it is already Friday noon,  you have made an appointment with some friends to play computer games all
weekend, and the number of contacts you have to send personalized emails to is several
thousands. Desperately thinking back on your education, you remember that Python has
libraries for sending emails, even with attachments, and you look up docs.python.org to find
the module documentation.

Write a computer program (Python script) that reads contacts from a csv (comma separated
values) file named “contacts.csv” on the form:  

    Surname1, Given Name1, Company1, Email-address1,
    Surname2, Given Name2, Company2, Email-address2,
  

For each of these contacts, the following personalized email should be written and sent:  

    Dear Given NameX SurnameX,  

    it is a pleasure for me to inform you that CompanyX, as a
    valued customer of Foomatic Inc.,  has been given the great
    and exclusive opportunity to buy our new software FooChart at
    a reduced rate. Please see the enclosed leaflet, and do not
    hesitate to contact me on Monday if you have any further
    questions.  

    Sincerely,
    Corporate Weasel
    Foomatic Inc.


The subject of the email should be:  
__“Pre-sale on FooChart from Foomatic Inc.”__

Here, Given __NameX, SurnameX, and CompanyX__ should be replaced with the contact
information read from "__contacts.csv__". An image file named “__FooChart.jpg__”
should be attached with each email. The image file resides in the same directory as
“__contacts.csv__.  

The attached module documentation for [email](http://www.uio.no/studier/emner/matnat/ifi/INF3331/h11/Email.pdf) and [smtplib](http://www.uio.no/studier/emner/matnat/ifi/INF3331/h11/smtp.pdf) should be helpful when
answering this assignment.  
  