#1

In a user interface we want to offer a compact syntax for loops: for example 
[0:12,4] means a loop from 0 up to and including 12 with steps of 4 (i.e., 0, 4, 8, 
12). The comma and step is optional, so leaving them out as in [3.1:5] implies a 
unit step (3.1 and 4.1 are generated in this example). Consider the two 
suggestions for suitable regular expressions below. Both of them fail:  
  
  

    >>> loop1 = '[0:12]'     # 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12
    >>> loop2 = '[0:12, 4]'  # 0,4,8,12
    >>> r1 = r'\[(.+):(.+?),?(.*)\]'
    >>> r2 = r'\[(.+):(.+),?(.*)\]'
    >>> import re
    >>> re.search(r1, loop1).groups()
    ('0', '1', '2')
    >>> re.search(r2, loop1).groups()
    ('0', '12', '')
    >>> re.search(r1, loop2).groups()
    ('0', '1', '2, 4')
    >>> re.search(r2, loop2).groups()
    ('0', '12, 4', '')

Explain in detail why the regular expressions fail. Use this insight to construct 
a regular expression that works

#2

Give an example of a vectorized operation using NumPy arrays, in the form of 
a short, stand-alone python script. Explain why and when vectorization is important.

#3

As part of your graduate studies, you have developed the simulator predator, 
which simulates the evolution of two populations of animals, where one preys 
on the other. The actual equations solved are not relevant in this context, but 
are listed here for completeness.  

    dx/dt=(b−py)x    (prey) 
    dy/dt=(rx−d)y    (predator)
The simulator takes an input file on the following form:
set time interval = [0,100]
set time step = 0.1
set integrator = ode15s
set b = 1.0
set p = 2.0
set r = 1.0
set d = 0.5

The output from your simulator is a prediction of the populations of the two 
species prey (x) and predator (y). There is a high degree of uncertainty in the 
parameters b, p, r, d. You therefore want to run a huge number of choices for 
these, and then do statistical analysis on the output. It becomes a bit tedious to 
edit the input file and type

    predator < input.i 

for every realization, so you seek a different solution. Write a Bash script that 
performs the following tasks:  

- Takes the four equation parameters b, p, r, and d as input, through 
command line options on the form -p <value p> -b <value b> or similar. 
- Creates the correct input file from these arguments, with the default 
values listed above if they are not specified on the command line.
- Runs the application with the generated input file.
    
#4

We have a function f(x,y,a,b) defined as

    def f(x,y,a,b):
        return a*x+b*y

We want to use this function as an input to the function gridvalues, which is 
defined as follows:

    def gridvalues(func, xcoor, ycoor,file):
        for i in range(len(xcoor)):
            for j in range(len(ycoor)): 
                f = func(xcoor[i], ycoor[j])
                    file.write(’%g %g %g\n’ % (xcoor[i], ycoor[j], f)
    
The obvious problem here is that the argument func in gridvalues takes only 
two arguments, while the function f takes four. Provide a flexible solution to 
this problem by implementing a callable Python class.

#5
You have been employed in Foomatic inc., which has recently updated its 
graphical profile. Unfortunately, they have huge archives of images that all 
have the old company logo displayed in the lower left corner. Your new boss is 
very eager to erase all traces of the old logo, and has asked you to fix the 
images by pasting the new logo on top of the old one. While you are at it, he 
says, you should convert all the images to JPEG format and resolution 
1280x720.  
Being a seasoned Python programmer, you want to automate this task and 
spend your time on more interesting work. Among the available tools, the 
Image module of the Python Imaging Library seems to be well suited for the 
task at hand  
Write a script that takes a list of file names as input and does the following 
tasks:  

1. Reads the files and verifies that they are in fact image files.
2. Convert the files resolution 1280x720.
3. Pastes the new company logo onto the images, in the lower left corner. The logo image can be found in the file foomatic.jpg. This file already 
has the correct size for covering the old logo, so it does not need to be 
resized. Recall that image pixels are numbered from top-left.
4. Saves the images as JPEG files.  

Appendices:
[Python Imaging Library (scroll down in PDF)](http://www.uio.no/studier/emner/matnat/ifi/INF3331/h12/examinf3331.pdf "Appendice")